build docker images from roles (#33)
wazo-pbx/wazo-ansible: doc/docker.md

# Docker

To have the smallest possible changes between a deployment in pure
Ansible and a container based one, docker images are built from
ansible roles.

The `role2docker` script in the `bin` directory creates the docker

> image for a specific role. For example: `./bin/role2docker wazo_message_bus`.

Reviewer: I'ld specify the base OS here, something like this. Imho relevant since you also go down to the detail of specifying the packages in the labels.

> The `role2docker` script in the `bin` directory creates the eponym docker
> image, applying the given role over Debian Buster official image. For example: `./bin/role2docker > wazo_message_bus`.

Author: done

## Settings

A role that can be used to create a container must have a `docker` directory.

This `docker` directory can contain the following files:

`pre`: executable to run before installing the role on the
container. This is usually used to install dependencies from galaxy.

`post`: executable run after installing the role.

`init`: executable that is coped in `/init` and used as the entry point.

> `cmd`: entry point to inject in the container.

Reviewer: Same as `init` above, typo ?  I guess you meant

```suggestion
`cmd`: command to be passed down to the entrypoint.
```

Author: ok I clarified the doc.

the `org.wazo-platform.wazo_distribution` label.

## Constraints on roles

Roles should not execute any runtime commands like reloading services
when used in docker builds. To prevent this from happening, use the
`runtime` variable to protect the tasks. Example:

```
- name: reload asterisk dialplan
  command: asterisk -rx 'dialplan reload'
  when: runtime
```

Generated files like certs or tokens should be removed when not in
`runtime` mode and generated at service start. For example, the
generated files from `xivo-certs` should be removed like this:

```
- name: Remove generated files
  file:
    path: "{{ item }}"
    state: absent
  with_items:
    - /usr/share/xivo-certs/server.key
    - /usr/share/xivo-certs/server.crt
  when: not runtime
```

And the service should create them on start in its init script:

```
/var/lib/dpkg/info/xivo-certs.postinst configure
```

## Constraints on services

Services should get their settings/configuration from Consul to be
able to run in containers. The only settings that should be provided
by the container management system are the environment variables to
configure Consul. See the available ones at

> https://www.consul.io/docs/commands/#environment-variables.

Reviewer 2: Those environment variables are defined for Consul agent, not for Wazo services. We can use the same variable names in the Wazo services, but we should document them as such.
